So which bitwise operator can we use to disable
nth bit in a number?
It is bitwise AND operator. Because if we do
bitwise AND between one and zero, we will get zero
And if we do bitwise AND between zero and zero
also we will get zero.
So what we can do here is, we can create
a bit mask with the nth bit alone set to zero
and all the remaining bits set to one.
Now if we do bitwise AND between the number and
the bit mask, the nth bit will be set to zero.
and the remaining bits will remain the same as
it is in the number.
So let us take an example.
her the number is 58 and we are going to disable
the fifth bit here
First let us create a bit mask with the fifth bit
alone set to zero and the remaining bits set to one.
So how can we do that? From our previous videos,
we know how to create a bit mask with nth bit
alone set to one with the remaining bits set to zero.
we need to do 1 left shift n-1
right? that is, here it will be one left shift four
So we will get the fifth bit alone
set to one and all other bits to zero.
But our bit mask should be nth
Bit alone set to zero and all other bits one
which is
actually it's compliment.
So if we take complement of this, we will get
our required bit mask that is nth bit alone will
be set to zero and the remaining bits will be
set to one.
So let us do a bitwise AND operation between
the number and the bitmask.
See, in the result, the fifth bit has been disabled
that is, it has been set to zero and the
remaining bits will remain unchanged because when we perform
bitwise AND operation with one, the bit's value will not change
as zero AND one is zero and one AND one is one
So after disabling the fifth bit, the value in num will be 42.